feat(tutorials): custom email using iCloud et Scaleway DNS (#4783)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/custom-email-domain-icloud/index.mdx

categories:
  - domains-and-dns
dates:
  posted: 2025-04-02
---

iCloud is Apple's service that allows you to securely store and manage your data across the entire Apple ecosystem.

While it is most commonly used for the storage of photos or the backup of devices in the cloud, an iCloud+ feature correctly named **Custom Email Domain** allows you to set up an email address with your own domain.

<Macro id="requirements" />

- An iCloud account upgraded with [iCloud+ premium features](https://support.apple.com/en-us/108047)
- [Configured a domain name](/domains-and-dns/quickstart/)
- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization

## Adding the domain on iCloud

1. Log into your [iCloud account](https://www.icloud.com/)
2. Click on the button that looks like a grid, next to your avatar, in the navbar at the top of the page. A menu displays.
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-icloud-nav.webp" alt="" />
3. Click on **Custom Email Domain**. A new page with a form displays.
    <Message type="requirement">

>       If you don't have "Custom Email Domain" or are unable to proceed further, please verify that your iCloud account has access to iCloud+ premium features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      If you don not have "Custom Email Domain" or are unable to proceed further, please verify that your iCloud account has access to iCloud+ premium features.
```

>     <Message type="requirement">
>       If you do not have **Custom Email Domain** or are unable to proceed further, please verify that your iCloud account has access to iCloud+ premium features.
>     </Message>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <Message type="important">
      If you do not have **Custom Email Domain** or are unable to proceed further, please verify that your iCloud account has access to iCloud+ premium features.
    </Message>
```

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-icloud-menu.webp" alt="" />
4. Click **Add a domain you own**.
5. Select **Only You**.

> 6. Type the domain you own and that you want to use for your email address. For example, if you want your email address to look like `me@mysuperdomain.com`, type `mysuperdomain.com`. A multi-steps instruction displays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Type the domain you own and want to use for your email address. For example, if you want your email address to be `me@mysuperdomain.com`, type `mysuperdomain.com`. A multi-steps instruction displays.
```

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-icloud-own-domain.webp" alt="" />
7. Choose **No email addresses** at step 2.
8. Click **View** at step 3. The list of your domain's records displays. Keep this page open since you will need to copy them into your own domain's records in Scaleway DNS.
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-icloud-records" alt="" />

## Configuring the domain's records on Scaleway DNS

> 1. Log into the **Scaleway console**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Log into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
```

2. Click **Domains and DNS** in the menu on the left. The list of your domains displays.

> 3. Select your domain, then select **DNS Zone** and finally **Root zone**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click your domain, the **DNS zones** tab, and **Root zone**.
```

> 4. Click **Add Records**. We will add all records provided by iCloud. Please note that adding all records is mandatory for the setup to work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Click **Add records**. We will add all records provided by iCloud. Adding all records is **mandatory for the setup to work**.
```

<Lightbox src="scaleway-icloud-dns-txt.webp" alt="" />

### SPF record

The correspondence between iCloud's SPF instructions and Scaleway DNS records is as follows:

| iCloud       | Scaleway DNS        | Values (example)                 |
| ------------ | ------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Type         | Type                | TXT                              |
| Host         | Name                | @                                |
| Value        | Value               | "v=spf1 include:icloud.com ~all" |

<Lightbox src="scaleway-icloud-dns-spf.webp" alt="" />

### DKIM record

The correspondence between iCloud's DKIM instruction and Scaleway DNS records is as follows:

| iCloud       | Scaleway DNS        | Values (example)                      |
| ------------ | ------------------- | --------------------------------------|
| Type         | Type                | CNAME                                 |
| Host         | Name                | sig1._domainkey                       |
| Value        | Hostname            | sig1.dkim.xxx.at.icloudmailadmin.com. |

<Lightbox src="scaleway-icloud-dns-dkim.webp" alt="" />

> ## Verifying domain's records on iCloud

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Verifying the records on iCloud
```

1. Go back to your iCloud account.

> 2. Select **Finish setup** at step 4. Click **Confirm**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Select **Finish setup** at step 4 and click **Confirm**.
```

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-icloud-finish-setup.webp" alt="" />

    <Message type="note">

>       It may take some time for the records to propagate across the network. You can try the **Finish setup** step again later. You can also use the `dig` command in your terminal to check if the domain's records are accessible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      It may take some time for the records to propagate across the network. You can try the **Finish setup** step again later. Refer to the [dedicated documentation](/domains-and-dns/how-to/test-dns-zones-with-dig/#how-to-query-a-specific-record-type) to check if the domain's records are accessible using the `dig` command.
```

    </Message>

    <Message type="important">
      If you encounter an error with a record, please double-check that you have entered the exact values from iCloud to your domain's records in Scaleway DNS.
    </Message>

    <Lightbox src="scaleway-icloud-finish-ready.webp" alt="" />
3. Add an email address of your choice.
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-icloud-address.webp" alt="" />

> 4. You can now send emails using this address via iCloud Mail!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now send emails using this address via iCloud Mail!
```
